but if you have tried out the examples you have probably seen some. There are (at least) two distinguishable kinds of errors: syntax errors and exceptions.
also known as parsing errors
line 1
the error is detected at the keyword print
it may cause an error when an attempt is made to execute it. Errors detected during execution are called exceptions and are not unconditionally fatal: you will soon learn how to handle them in Python programs. Most exceptions are not handled by programs
line 1
line 1
line 1
and the type is printed as part of the message: the types in the example are ZeroDivisionError
in the form of a stack traceback. In general it contains a stack traceback listing source lines; however
which asks the user for input until a valid integer has been entered
the try clause (the statement(s) between the try and except keywords) is executed.
the except clause is skipped and execution of the try statement is finished.
the rest of the clause is skipped. Then if its type matches the exception named after the except keyword
it is passed on to outer try statements; if no handler is found
to specify handlers for different exceptions. At most one handler will be executed. Handlers only handle exceptions that occur in the corresponding try clause
TypeError
because except ValueError
to serve as a wildcard. Use this with extreme caution
e.strerror)
sys.exc_info()[0]
which
'r')
arg
'has'
it may have an associated value
the exception instance defines __str__() so the arguments can be printed directly without having to reference .args.
'eggs')
y = inst.args
x
y
'eggs')
'eggs')
it is printed as the last part (‘detail’) of the message for unhandled exceptions.
but also if they occur inside functions that are called (even indirectly) in the try clause. For example:
detail
line 1
a simpler form of the raise statement allows you to re-raise the exception:
line 2
either directly or indirectly. For example:
value):
value:'
value: 4
line 1
the default __init__() of Exception has been overridden. The new behavior simply creates the value attribute. This replaces the default behavior of creating the args attribute.
but are usually kept simple
expr
prev
” similar to the naming of the standard exceptions.
world!'
world!
line 2
whether an exception has occurred or not. When an exception has occurred in the try clause and has not been handled by an except clause (or it has occurred in a except or else clause)
y):
result
1)
0)
"1")
line 1
line 3
the finally clause is executed in any event. The TypeError raised by dividing two strings is not handled by the except clause and therefore re-raised after the finally clause has been executed.
the finally clause is useful for releasing external resources (such as files or network connections)
regardless of whether or not the operation using the object succeeded or failed. Look at the following example

but can be a problem for larger applications. The with statement allows objects like files to be used in a way that ensures they are always cleaned up promptly and correctly.

the file f is always closed
class or function name.
Python Software Foundation.
2016. Found a bug?
